Founded in 1977, the Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering (CSIE) began with the undergraduate program. In 1981, the Master of Science program was founded; the Ph.D. program began in 1984. The department thus offers a complete lineup of degree programs in education and research. Each year the department admits about 120 undergraduates, 140 Master's students and 35 Ph.D. students. As of the 2007 academic year, CSIE has 494 undergraduates, 384 Master's students, and 182 Ph.D. students, totaling 1060 students.

The department is housed in a modern building. With state-of-the-art facilities and a strong faculty, the department has a leading academic position not only in Taiwan, but also among the top programs world-wide. The department has organized several international conferences and has been recognized for its achievements in various international competitions, including the gold medal in Chinese Chess at both the 6th and 7th Computer Olympiads, the 1st place in the 2003 Computer Society International Design Competition (CSIDC), the 6th place in the ACM ICPC World Finals in 2004, the gold medal in the International Open Source Embedded Software Competition (IOSESC) in 2006, and the 14th place in the ACM ICPC World Finals in 2007.

The undergraduate program is designed for students whose major interest is in computer science. It gives the student the opportunity to obtain a broad knowledge of computer science and the freedom to tailor the program according to the student's individual needs. Courses focus on Computer Science and Information Engineering basics such as Data Structure & Algorithm, Engineering/Discrete Mathematics, Programming/Assembly Languages, Operating System and Computer Architecture. With our programs for the Master Degree, we aim at training a group of professional computer engineers to teach or conduct research in the future. The programs for the Doctoral Degree bring the students to an advanced level of computer science, studying the most state-of-the-art technology in computer science. 
